I was born in 1943
as the eldest son of six siblings.
My father expected me
to become a judge or a prosecutor.
I was baptized
on October 24, 1959,
during my first year
of high school.
The more I did personal study,
I came to the conclusion that rather than
spending four years in higher education,
it would be more beneficial
for me to pioneer,
while delving deeper
into the Bible through personal study.
So instead of going to college,
I began regular pioneering in February 1962.
And 11 months later, in January 1963,
I was assigned to serve as a special pioneer.
I was convinced
that I had chosen the best path.
That’s why when I hear
of the successful careers
my old classmates have had,
I don’t feel jealous at all.
Instead, I think of how nice it would be
if they too learned
the Bible truths like I did.
I was assigned to the traveling work in 1971.
But because of adjustments
in our organization
and because of my conscientious objection
to military service,
I had to stop serving
as a traveling overseer
on two separate occasions.
When I received a new assignment
as a field instructor,
I really enjoyed that work.
But we were reassigned once again
as special pioneers in September 2014.
I was a bit disappointed at first,
since I really enjoyed teaching
and I felt I could have continued
as a field instructor for another ten years.
Hoping to bring glory to Jehovah,
I prayed earnestly to be able
to use the experience I had gained
over the years to bring glory
to God and to find interested ones.
Unexpectedly, I was blessed
with ten great Bible studies,
and that renewed my love of teaching.
We know that Jehovah
gives each individual work
that is perfectly suited to them.
We feel that serving as special pioneers,
as we currently do, is a rewarding assignment
that brings us happiness.
Looking back at all that has happened
and counting all the years
we’ve been in special full-time service,
we realized that together
we have been serving
for more than a hundred years.
One thing I learned from this was
that if you adhere to theocratic direction,
many blessings are sure to follow.
Just as he promised,
Jehovah has given us
everything we ever needed and more.
He gave us not just a hundredfold
but a hundred times a hundredfold
—brothers and sisters
who are like family to us.
We got married on April 1, 1968.
So as of this year,
we have been married exactly 50 years.
In June 2017,
my wife was not feeling well
and we went for a health checkup.
She was diagnosed with stage IV bone cancer,
and it had spread all through her back.
She felt very weak,
and we had a very difficult time.
But Jehovah gave us
strength and wisdom to endure,
and now her condition is more stable.
Now our health
is not as good as it used to be,
but thanks to the loving
infirm-special-pioneer arrangement,
we are able
to keep serving Jehovah faithfully
without it being a burden.
Through economic troubles, health problems,
and all of the difficulties
that we encountered,
we always felt that Jehovah was with us.
So we really feel that Jehovah
has securely wrapped us “in the bag of life”
and has watched over us throughout our lives,
just as he had promised
in 1 Samuel 25:29.
These days, we pray to Jehovah
that we can serve him faithfully,
survive Armageddon together,
and enjoy everlasting life in the new system
as an eternally-married couple.